As you've seen in the first module,
the BookStore application deals with books and those books
are stored in a relational database.
I'm sure you know that there are few relational databases out there,
from commercial to open source, and it's quite tricky to choose one.
If we stick to the open source world, we have MySQL,
MariaDB, ApacheDerby, SQLite, PostgreSQL,
or H2.
There are a few more,
but I would say these ones are the most used in the Java EE development.
We will use H2 in our BookStore application.
H2 is a relational database,
but its particularity is to be very fast and has a
very small footprint of around 1.
5 MB.
In fact, it's perfect for development because it has an in-memory embedded mode.
This means that we won't be starting and stopping a database server.
Instead, we will just depend on an H2 jar file,
install our data directly in-memory.
Of course, you shouldn't do that in production environment,
but for development it saves us resources and deployment time.
And like most of the tools we use, H2 is also open-source.
Here we are on the H2 website,
you can see at the bottom all the features and it
compares H2 with other relational databases.
On the website, we can see how to install it, but we won't actually.
We will just add a Maven dependency on H2 and it will
automatically be added to our class path.
In the list of features there is the memory mode I was mentioning, very handy and fast when developing.